>> Jen Kramer So let's dive a little
bit deeper into how the client and
the server are going to
communicate with each other.
This is actually a small slice of what the
Internet is, and how the Internet works.
I'm going to leave out a ton of detail,
because you don't need to know
a whole lot of detail about
how these communications work.
In fact,
there are whole degree programs that
are based on communications like this.
We're just gonna focus on just enough so
that you have a fundamental understanding
of how this communciation happens so
that you can work very
competently as a web developer.
So I showed you this image before,
where we have a client over on
the left-hand side running a web browser.
We have a server on the right-hand side,
that's the computer name.
Along with the server software
that it's running and
we have some kind of communications
that are happening in between.
And so if we think about how we would talk
about the way that communication happens,
one of the famous discussion is
the Internet is a series of tubes and
that there are full of cats.
And this is somewhat accurate,
there definitely a lot of cats out
there on the Internet, but
we can say a little bit more about this.
If we think about water for example, water
is gonna come from somewhere, some lakes,
some river, some stream, it's going to
go through a water refinement plan and
it's gonna come to your home.
We don't have specific molecules
that are targeted towards our home.
We just turn on the water and
we manage to get some.
This model is actually not quite right for
the Internet.
Because if I'm asking for
a certain web page for my client,
I'm looking for a server that is going
to give me that particular information.
This is actually more like
an envelope at the post office.
Where there is a return address and
there's an address for
some place that I'm trying to get to.
In this case the address would be, let's
say the Google home page is where I'm
trying to go, and the return address
would be the address of my computer.
So where did those addresses come from?
Well, they are called the IP address.
And you probably have seen
something like this before,
if you take a look here
we have a website URL,
this is the website address for
Frontend Masters.
And I was able to figure
out that the IP address for
this is 52.39.142.164.
So that IP address actually very
accurately describes the Frontend Masters'
website, but we humans have a very
hard time remembering a whole bunch
of numbers like that.
So the domain name helps us,
something that's far more memborable
that we can type into our computer.
And then our computers are smart enough
to match that domain name with our IP
address.
And I'll say more about
that in another video.
If you're wondering how
to get the IP address,
this second link here for
site 24 X7.com will allow you to
go look up the IP address of pretty
much any website that you want.
And if you are wondering your IP address
is, you can go to whatismyip.com,
and it will very happily tell
you what your IP address is.
>> Jen Kramer Something else is gonna help
get on the Internet from your computer
sitting in your home, you're going to
need an Internet Service Provider.
The Internet Service Provider is designed
to have something that is going to
take the Internet from your computer,
out of your house, and
out into the rest of the Internet.
And so there's lots of different kinds
of Internet Service Providers out there.
You've probably heard of Comcast or Cox,
they are cable companies
that often provide Internet.
Or you may have Verizon or AT&T,
maybe they're doing FIOS for you.
Or Verizon or AT&T,
maybe they're your cellphone company.
Your cellphone company obviously can
provide data, that's part of the Internet.
And maybe you have something else, like
satellite Internet, or dial-up Internet,
or something else like that.
All of these are all Internet access,
they all get to exactly the same Internet,
they're just different
technologies that get you there.
Let me just clarify one
point on this though, so
the ISP is gonna provide the IP address
to the modem or the router in your house.
And so if you look at this picture here,
you probably have something similar
which look like this at your house.
And so, your Internet Service Provider
will give you an IP address for that.
Now, inside your house, you may have
a whole bunch of devices running.
You may have phones, and tablets,
and computers, and who knows,
an Internet connected refrigerator.
And what will happen here is that this
router will control more IP addresses for
within your house.
To the outside world, this may look
like all like one single IP address that
we are sending request out into the world
and that they're coming back again.
But then it's the router's job to say yes,
here's that Google home page,
that's going to Jen's computer.
Here's the Frontend Masters' page,
that's going to Mark's computer.
And so that is what the router is
going to do there in your house.
Okay, you may have also heard
of something called the cloud.
Well It sounds really cutting-edge and
amazing and fabulous, but
I have to tell you, it's really been
around and with us for quite a long time.
If you happen to use Internet-based
email like Gmail or Yahoo or
even some of the new like
Microsoft Outlook 365,
you are actually doing cloud computing.
The cloud is just a fancy
way of saying the Internet.
And that's pretty much all you
need to know about the cloud,
it's just the Internet.
I also wanna say something
about HTTP versus HTTPS.
As you go to your websites you may see,
you start off your website address
that starts with http:// or
https://, and you may be wondering,
what's the difference is for those?
So HTTP stands for the Hypertext Transfer
Protocol, which is a fancy way of saying,
this is how we're going to communicate
between the client and the server.
This is the way we are going to
communicate with a certain protocol and
we are going to be changing
web pages back and forth.
The S indicates that it is secure, but
it is very important to be clear
about what the security is.
We often tell people to make sure that if
you are doing an e-commerce transaction
to make sure that you see
the little padlock and the icon.
This is related to HTTPS.
But what HTTPS is actually doing
in this context is it's incrypting
the transmission from the computer
that's here in front of you,
out to the computer where you're
actually running the transaction.
That's it.
So in other words,
it's secure from your front door,
to their front door essentially.
When you actually get on the computer,
where the transaction is happening.
That's a whole different
side of securities.
And so its possible that you could
send your credit card encrypted across
the Internet, via HTTPS.
And it could be received by a computer,
which will display your credit card number
in plane text, for hackers to take.
So HTTPS is secure but
only from the distance from your
computer to the server
that it is contacting.
It has nothing to do with the security
that is happening on the server itself.
So here's some examples of that HTTP and
HTTPS.
So if you went to HTTP,
you could get to my website.
My website has got absolutely no ecommerce
on it, it's got no social security
numbers or health information,
there is nothing there to steal.
And so I don't have any security
in terms of that communication
associated with that.
If you went to the Frontend Masters'
website, that's a very different story.
You can buy a subscription
to the service there, and so
therefore, it is protected
under the HTTPS protocol.
And just as a sidenote, as you type
these addresses into your web browser,
you can have other protocols
that you might be interested in.
Almost all the time we're going to do
HTTP or HTTPS but you could, in fact,
use FTP, which is the file transfer
protocol and the older protocol that is
just designed to send a file
from one computer to another.
And if you used a pattern that sort of
looks like this where you have a username
and a password, and an at sign,
and a host and a port.
Looks pretty complicated, but
that would allow you to tranfer
files from one computer to another.
So that's a very quicker reveiw
of cloud's server communcation,
a little bit about IP addresses,
HTTP, HTTPS,
just enough to get you started and have
appreciation for how the web is working.